content/recruit/_index.md, before:

---
title: Recruit me
description: Let's be candid about what would make us a good fit
hide_header: true
hide_title: true
comments: false
---

{{< icon svg="chevron-left" text="home" anchor_class="block mb-8" href="/" >}}

# Recruit me

Hi, let's be candid about what would make us a good fit. I clearly spell a few
things out here in order to save both of us time. You can also
[learn more about me personally](/about).

You should know that I really enjoy my job. But, perhaps you have something that
I won't want to miss.

### What you get

- I've been hard at work
  [writing production code](https://github.com/brettinternet) for years now with
  an enterprise quality fit to solve problems at different scales and
  velocities. I work with all kinds of technologies and I'm excited to solve
  problems.
- I have [experience](/resume.pdf) mentoring, teaching, and uplifting others.
- I'm thrilled by what I do. You can tell by what my coworkers say about me, my
  commitment to the products I work on, and the effort I put into my career
  development outside working hours.
- I have solid DevOps experience, and I even run [my own servers](/homelab) at
  home.
- I'm corrigible and I enjoy being on teams with people of different
  backgrounds, experiences, and viewpoints. I believe it's important to find
  growth in any circumstance and to learn from everyone I work with.
- [I'm passionate about a variety technologies.](/resume.pdf)
- I collaborate really well remotely. _Ask me about some of the techniques I
  employ to engage with my team!_

### What I'm looking for

**I value opportunities** to innovate and solve complex technical challenges so
I can grow and stretch myself. I seek to deliver performant software that's
meaningful to customers.

I'm open to working with most kinds of products. Given the current market, I'm
not open to products that rely solely on blockchain technologies.

As part of the recruitment process, I would like an opportunity to sit down with
the team (virtually or in-person) to answer questions and discuss the product
and engineering experience.

I am only open to remote work at this time.

I'm willing to discuss moonlighting additional
[contract or consulting](/consult) work.

If you still think I might be a good fit, then please share with me some details
before we connect on a call:

- What can you share about the product's tech stack (e.g. front and backends,
  other services, legacy code)?
- What do the engineering and product team look like (e.g. headcount,
  experience, roles)?
- What problems are you trying to solve with your product?

{{< cta href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/brettinternet/" message="Connect with Brett" new_window=true root_class="mt-12" >}}

Commit message:

add question about team pr

content/recruit/_index.md, after:

---
title: Recruit me
description: Let's be candid about what would make us a good fit
hide_header: true
hide_title: true
comments: false
---

{{< icon svg="chevron-left" text="home" anchor_class="block mb-8" href="/" >}}

# Recruit me

Hi, let's be candid about what would make us a good fit. I clearly spell a few
things out here in order to save both of us time. You can also
[learn more about me personally](/about).

You should know that I really enjoy my job. But, perhaps you have something that
I won't want to miss.

### What you get

- I've been hard at work
  [writing production code](https://github.com/brettinternet) for years now with
  an enterprise quality fit to solve problems at different scales and
  velocities. I work with all kinds of technologies and I'm excited to solve
  problems.
- I have [experience](/resume.pdf) mentoring, teaching, and uplifting others.
- I'm thrilled by what I do. You can tell by what my coworkers say about me, my
  commitment to the products I work on, and the effort I put into my career
  development outside working hours.
- I have solid DevOps experience, and I even run [my own servers](/homelab) at
  home.
- I'm corrigible and I enjoy being on teams with people of different
  backgrounds, experiences, and viewpoints. I believe it's important to find
  growth in any circumstance and to learn from everyone I work with.
- [I'm passionate about a variety technologies.](/resume.pdf)
- I collaborate really well remotely. _Ask me about some of the techniques I
  employ to engage with my team!_

### What I'm looking for

**I value opportunities** to innovate and solve complex technical challenges so
I can grow and stretch myself. I seek to deliver performant software that's
meaningful to customers.

I'm open to working with most kinds of products. Given the current market, I'm
not open to products that rely solely on blockchain technologies.

As part of the recruitment process, I would like an opportunity to sit down with
the team (virtually or in-person) to answer questions and discuss the product
and engineering experience.

I am only open to remote work at this time.

I'm willing to discuss moonlighting additional
[contract or consulting](/consult) work.

If you still think I might be a good fit, then please share with me some details
before we connect on a call:

- What can you share about the product's tech stack (e.g. front and backends,
  other services, legacy code)?
- What do the engineering and product team look like (e.g. headcount,
  experience, roles)? What does a Pull Request on the team look like?
- What problems are you trying to solve with your product?

{{< cta href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/brettinternet/" message="Connect with Brett" new_window=true root_class="mt-12" >}}
